Hi all,

I hope this message finds you all well.

A few of us (Elisa, Josh, and myself) have been discussing putting together a paper that builds on our work from the SFI Summer School. We hope to submit to a Computer Science conference like the International Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM-14) or the International Conference on Social Computing (SocialCom-14) since these have hard deadlines (unlike a submission to a journal) and more naturally fit the flavor of our project.

To give you an idea of a possible timeline, the deadlines for these conferences are 15 January 2014 and 1 March 2014. That means we should aim to have most of the research done by late December / early January so that we have two weeks to write the paper itself. The paper should be 6 to 10 pages for these venues, which isn't a lot.

Our basic idea for the paper is to extend the community detection question we explored this summer to include *directed*, content-free information (using something like transfer entropy) as well as content-full information (like mentions and retweets). From the summer, we saw that using *undirected* content-free information (mutual information) allowed us to pick up on additional structure not present in considering the follower network by itself. Thus, an interesting question to explore: do the content-free and content-full communities coincide, and if not, how do they differ?

Let us know if you're interested in working on this project. We're up against a tight deadline, so consider how much time you have to commit and what you think you can contribute to the project. In particular, think about:

1) Which type of information (content-free or content-full) you would most like to analyze?

2) What method you would propose for defining communities based on this type information? (I've proposed some ways above, but there are certainly plenty more!)

3) What kind of questions can we ask (and hopefully answer) about these communities?

Thanks for taking the time to read this.

And Happy (Pre-)Turkey Day to everyone in the US!
Dave