A community as something that you know when you see. The general definition of a community with the physics literature (in terms of things like modularity). In social networking services, 'community' could mean many things.

Many possible definitions of a community on Twitter:

Structural: Who are you friends with?

Topical: What do you talk about?

Interaction: Who do you talk to?

Behavioral: Who do you act like?

Most previous work considers these types of communities in isolation.

References:

We propose looking at when and how these communities overlap, and whether different approaches to asking the question, ``What community are you in?'' leads to different insights about the network.

Put a `worked example' here as to how a single person might belong to various different types of communities, and how these types of communities might reveal different insights.

Possibly mention 'meta data,' and how, while it has become a dirty word post-Snowden, it can reveal a lot of information about a person.

Previous Work:

We can break down the approaches into two broad categories, content-free and content-full.

Content-free (information theoretic) approaches:

Shalizi proposes a purely behavioral method

\cite{shalizi2007discovering}

originally motivated for finding functional communities within populations of neurons.

We extended this work to social systems, detecting communities on Twitter based on undirected information flow:

\cite{darmon2013detecting}

Galstyan et al propose a similar approach

\cite{ver2012information}

using transfer entropy rather than mutual information. However, their goal was *link prediction* rather than community discovery.

Content-full (socially motivated) approaches:

Twitter, being a social network service, has a great deal of social information embedded in each tweet. Many approaches have explicitly accounted for this information in their definition of a community.

Put references to work done using mentions / replies / retweets / hash tags, etc.