Elisa
=====

Followers are Not Enough: Beyond Structural Communities in Online Social Networks

Community detection in online social networks is usually based on the analysis of the explicit connections between users, such as "friends" on Facebook and "followers" on Twitter. But online users often have hundreds or even thousands of such connections, and in most cases the majority of them do not correspond to real friendships or more generally to people users really interact with. We claim that community detection in social networks should be question-oriented and rely on additional information with respect to the simple structure of the network. The concept of 'community' is in fact very general, and different questions such as "who do we interact with?" and "with whom do we share similar interests?" can lead to the discovery of different social groups. In this paper we focus on three kind of communities: behavioral, interaction-based and content-based. We analyze a Twitter dataset by weighting in different ways the structural links according to the different questions, and we then apply the OSLOM community detection algorithm to the different weighted networks obtained. We show that the communities obtained in the three cases are highly different to each other, and to the ones obtained by considering only the unweighted structural links. Our results confirm that asking a precise question is an unavoidable first step in community detection in online social networks, and that different questions can lead to different interesting insights on the network under study.

Josh
====

For online social networks defining community with only structure in mind is a grave mistake. Many questions about the functional communities of a social network simply cannot be explained by analyzing the network’s structure alone. In this paper we not only utilize the \emph{structure} of a particular follower-followee Twitter network but we question the \emph{function} of this network. This approach allows us to pull apart and analyze new communities which are normally hidden when simply looking at the \emph{structural} communities alone. To this end we perform community detection on several directed-weighted networks with weights derived both in a content-free and content-full approach. For the content-full weightings we use hashtags, mentions and retweets and for the content-free approach we weight the edges of an inversion of this network with transfer entropy. The content full approach illustrates which users actually communicate, tweet about similar things and rebroadcast each other. The content-free approach gives us great insight into the sources of information in various communities as well as which users within a community use Twitter with similar frequency.  With these communities in hand we then do an in-depth analysis comparing the similarities and differences of the structural communities with the content-free and content-full communities. This analysis illustrates the importance and benefit to implementing \emph{multiple} layers of community weighting and detection when analyzing an online social network.

Dave
====

Communities play a central role in determining how users interact with online social media services. In many cases, the `social graph' for users on these services is at least partially known, and provides information about how users \emph{can} interact. However, this social graph does not capture how users \emph{actually} interact. In this paper, we investigate how augmenting the social graph of users with information about their online interactions reveals communities distinct from those determined using the social graph alone. Using data collected from fifteen thousand Twitter users over a nine week period, we examine how the definition of a community is problem-dependent, and demonstrate that different definitions reveal different communities. These findings highlight the importance of carefully framing questions regarding communities in online social networks, and emphasize the importance of going beyond the static social graph of users in social network analysis.